[Music]
hi
michael here today i'll show you a drama
mystery sci-fi film called the happening
spoiler alert you'll understand the
important plot points
the film opens in new york people start
to get confused in central park
repeating their words standing still and
sometimes walking backwards
we hear a few screams a woman reading on
a bench takes her silver chopstick style
hair
pin out of her hair and stabs herself in
the neck with it
meanwhile on a building site workers on
the ground are chatting when all of a
sudden a body falls
panicked thinking the worker just fell
off the roof by mistake
they rush over to his broken body while
they looked over the body
another thud another worker they look at
him confused
one is possible two is unlikely and when
the third falls it seems impossible
then yet another and another crashing to
earth when they look up they see many
running off the edge
apparently by their own will looking
completely calm and sure of their
actions
in the next shot we see a science
teacher named elliot
talking about the event science cannot
explain about thousands of disappearing
bees no bodies left no trace a student
offers the opinion that this is a
natural event that we will never fully
understand
several students start to speculate on
the phenomenon that is the disappearing
bees
when elliot is suddenly called out of
class to a staff meeting warning about
an apparent terrorist attack in new york
in which terrorists have apparently
released some kind of gas in central
park
and advising that school is cancelled as
they leave
elliott confesses to his friend julian a
math teacher
that he and his wife are having some
problems
elliot and his wife alma flee
philadelphia on a train
with julian and his daughter jess on the
train people start to get reports by
cell phone that the attacks have been
reported at their destination
and in many other places alma is getting
repeated and insistent calls on her
phone from someone called joey
and she lies to elliot about it the
movie moves on to show ridden house park
in philadelphia where a woman walks her
dog and a breeze begins to blow
a traffic cop walking through a traffic
jam stops and comments to a taxi driver
about the chilly weather
suddenly everyone stops in their tracks
and the dog runs across the road after
his leash drops to the ground
leading us back to the cop who is now
standing still in front of the cap
a gunshot rings out and he drops to the
ground as blood spurts from a bullet
wound on his forehead
the taxi driver gets out walks over to
the dead cop picks up the gun from
beside the body and shoots himself in
the forehead as well
a woman in high heels steps off the
sidewalk picks up the gun again and we
hear another gunshot
the train ends up leaving elliott alma
julian
jess and all the other passengers in a
small rural town
as the conductors have lost radio
contact with everyone else
at a diner they see a newscast that
suggests the suicides are not caused by
a terrorist attack
but by a natural phenomena a reporter
says that the toxin switches off the
part of the brain that keeps us from
harming ourselves
julian has by now lost phone contact
with his wife who is visiting princeton
and starts to panic as some lady shows
elliott a youtube type video she was
sent on her iphone
showing a man walk into a lion's den at
a zoo and taunting the lions with his
hands to try to get them to attack him
julian finds a lift with some people
heading to princeton
he leaves jess with elliot and alma when
he gets there
princeton is also infected and there are
dozens of people hanging from trees over
the road the driver of the car crashes
deliberately into a tree at high speed
and julian slashes his wrists with
broken windscreen glass
and dies meanwhile elliott and alma
decide
along with everybody else to flee for
the state line with jess
as the attacks seem only to be affecting
the northeast us
a nice couple who run a plant nursery
offer to take them in their car
the man suggests to elliott and alma
that the toxin is produced by plants
he explains the way plants can
communicate with other plants and the
way they can release chemicals to get
rid of specific pests
while trying to reach the state line
they see bodies ahead in the road
turning back they meet many other cars
all converging on a country road
junction
all report bodies back the way they have
come organized by an army private they
abandon the cars and set out on foot
heading for a small remote housing
development that one man who happens to
be a realtor knows about
it's new and small and not on any maps
except local ones
so they hope it will be safe from the
terrorists since it appears they are
focusing on large cities and roads
one group leaves right away from the
crossroads but most people take a moment
to gather their belongings from their
cars
so they walk in two groups across the
fields the smaller group
10 to 12 people with elliot alma and
jess
is in front the larger 20 to 25 people
including the soldier and the plant
couple is behind them by three or four
minutes
this larger group gets infected and the
soldier become delusional
shouting something about how he is a
soldier and his gun is his friend
and he will not leave it then elliott's
group hears the gunshots as one by one
they presumably use the soldier's gun to
kill themselves
elliott starts to believe that it is
indeed the plants and that the toxin is
triggered by large groups of people
he yells at everyone to split up into
smaller groups and the group peels off
into three smaller groups
all running away in different directions
alma tells elliot that if they are going
to die she wants to tell him something
one night when she had told elliot she
was working late she actually went out
for tiramisu with joey from work
but that's all that happened after
walking for a bit
elliott responds by claiming that he
finds the girl who works at the local
drugstore particularly attractive
and that he occasionally buys cough
medication from her even when he isn't
coughing
later he admits that he made this up
elliott alma jess and two teenagers find
a show home for the new development
there is some comic relief as elliott
talks to a plan he sees blowing inside
and introduces himself saying he is
giving good vibes so it won't harm him
it turns out the plan is plastic but he
keeps talking for a little just in case
feeling like an idiot as they leave they
look back
and see two small groups of people
arrive at the show home
forming one larger group that many
people trigger the toxin
and they stand around confused except
for one man who starts up a large
commercial lawnmower
then lies in the grass in front of it as
it rips him apart
our five people all end up on the front
porch of a boarded-up house
asking for food while jess plays on a
rope swing suspended from a tree branch
the inhabitants of the house refuse to
offer food or shelter
and the two teenagers start to get very
aggressive kicking at the door and
shouting at the people inside
the inhabitants shoot the two teenagers
dead one through the chest and the
second through the head
elliot is horrified elliott alma and
jess move until they find an old house
with no power
which they think is abandoned a spooky
old lady lives there
who chooses to remain out of contact
with the whole world
she doesn't want to know about the event
in the outside world
however she gives them supper and a bed
for the night
we then see a newscast discussing the
toxin a scientist is suggesting that
judging from the severity and number of
the attacks
and assuming some similarities to other
kinds of natural toxins like ocean algae
the attacks will peak at 9 00 am the
next day and very quickly fall away to
nothing following that
there's a graph that shows a drastic
tail off of toxin activity
in the morning when elliot wakes up the
old lady tells him that he
alma and jess have to leave she seems
completely bonkers
she then goes outside into the garden
pauses and starts walking backwards
the toxin has affected her as elliot
cowers inside the house
the old lady walks around the porch and
headbutts the walls and eventually the
window leaving glass splinters in her
face and eye
and also letting in the wind and the
toxin
elliot runs through the house trying to
find alma and jess
he can hear them but can't locate them
he thinks he hears them in the cellar
but when he goes in he is alone alma and
jess are actually outside in an old
stone spring house
a speaking tube between the spring house
and the cellar has transmitted their
voices as clearly as if they were right
next to elliot
and elliott can talk to them through
this he explains that the toxin now
seems to be set off by even one person
alone
elliott decides that if he is going to
die he doesn't want to die alone
they all leave their safe hiding places
and walk into the middle of the garden
and hold hands
the wind blows nothing happens it had
ended
three months later and they are all
living back in philly
which looks business as usual while the
streets are fairly empty
there are cars driving around and people
walking on the sidewalks
jess is off to school by bus alma is
doing a pregnancy test
it's positive and elliot hugs her and
looks delighted
on the tv as a scientist warning that
the event was like a red tide
the first sign that the planet is
rejecting humans as pests
the host says that if that were true it
would be happening in other places
cut to the gardens in paris france two
guys are walking discussing plans for
after work that evening
cue distant scream one guy starts to
repeat his words about a bike
everyone stands still other guy says in
french
oh my god this is michael movie recap
channel
see you in the next video bye